Okay,
guys,
I'm welcome back of the science.
CeBIT hell,
we store information naturally.
Now,
computer store data in a sequential fashion.
When you hit save button,
you'll be storing a specific piece of data,
a letter photo and MP three,
a movie with a specific name in a specific location.
You probably have some kind of filing system where all your music is stored in the same
place on all your photos in another.
Now,
this is very convenient.
But to get back to that photo to recall it,
you're going to need to navigate the precise path to where you stored it.
If you look somewhere else,
it won't be there.
If you go to your music folder,
there will be no clues saying,
Hey,
were you looking for that photo?
Try looking in the photos folder.
Luckily for us,
our brains don't work that way.
When we remember something that is store something for later retrieval,
we write that information to our brain using multiple reference points across the different
senses simultaneously.
Not only that,
but each of the various reference points are inextricably linked to each other.
Neurologically essentially,
they become hardwired.
This is regardless of where physically in the brain they are stored.
Further,
any existing reference points are also linked.
Associate ID to the new information,
which creates an intricate and unique tapestry of our experiences.
Better yet,
for us,
in our quest for a perfect memory,
we can utilize that interconnectedness toe access that photo even if we're looking in the
wrong place.
Unlike a computer,
if I think back to my childhood Adan Auntie Olga,
I can't get ready to my head neck.
She actually wasn't my auntie,
but anyone significantly older than me was an aunt or an uncle back then.
So Auntie Olga had that white cat like blow felts.
She baked great muffins.
She also used to smoke cigarettes in her conservatory.
At the back of her house,
she had a record player that you could slide records into vertically.
If I close my eyes,
I could go back in time to that conservatory.
Smell the cigarette smoke,
taste the muffin,
stroke the cat.
I can even walk around a house.
A complete wealth of sensory information comes flooding backers.
If I were there right now,
now it could access that memory using any of those reference points or triggers.
I may pass someone smoking a cigarette,
smell the smoke and make the jump.
I could see a white cat.
I may even see some all records stood up vertically on.
That could be enough to drift away right back to my childhood.
Now,
of course,
to us all this information is just context.
But our brains,
it's not.
Our brains do not intuitively know which elements of something we need to retrieve later,
so it captures a bunch of different data points simultaneously,
as we learn.
So you'll recall the description,
their inherent storage capacity from Scientific American I mentioned a little earlier.
It said New Ron's combined so that each one helps with many memories at a time,
exponentially increasing the brain's memory storage capacity to something closer to around
2.5.
Petabytes now just isn't aside.
As I mentioned this quote you again or you read the words on the screen.
Can you recall anything else from the first time you heard or read it?
Where were you?
How you sitting?
What was the weather like?
Was it warm?
Was it cool?
We're hungry.
Could you smell something cooking?
Could you hear kids playing outside in the street.
The chances are that you will recall something beyond the quote itself,
though,
as an example,
smelling your casserole cooking in the oven is not relevant to the quote.
That piece of data was stored right along with it.
Well,
that's this inaction.
Now,
the scientific term for this process of writing multiple data points and interconnectedness
is called into leaving.
And we're gonna exploit this to its full potential to make our memory stronger.
More on that later.
Okay,
I'll see you in the next lecture.